docs/examples.rst, before:

.. _examples:

Examples
========

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    Demo Module <demo_module>
    Demo Class <demo_class>
    Demo Grouper <demo_grouper>

Including a table of contents
-----------------------------
Consider for example the following module in ``dummy.py``:

.. literalinclude:: dummy.py

The *autosummary* flag introduces a small table of contents. So::

    .. automodule:: dummy
        :members:
        :autosummary:

produces :ref:`this <demo_module>`. And::

    .. autoclass:: dummy.SomeClass
        :members:
        :autosummary:

produces :ref:`this <demo_class>`.

By default, module members are (mainly) grouped according into *Functions*,
*Classes* and *Data*, class members are grouped into *Methods* and
*Attributes*. But you can also provide alternative section names by connecting
to the :event:`autodocsumm-grouper` event. For example, if you include::

    def example_grouper(app, what, name, obj, section, options, parent):
        import dummy
        if parent is dummy.MyClass and name == 'some_other_attr':
            return 'Alternative Section'


    def setup(app):
        app.connect('autodocsumm-grouper', example_grouper)

in your *conf.py*, you get :ref:`this <demo_grouper>`.

Note that you can also include the *autosummary* flag in the
:confval:`autodoc_default_options` configuration value


Including the ``__call__`` method
---------------------------------
Suppose you have a descriptor with a ``__call__`` method (i.e. somewhat like
a method with additional features).

.. literalinclude:: call_demo.py

Then, if you set ``autodata_content = 'both'`` in your *conf.py* you get via::

    .. autoclass:: call_demo.MyClass
        :noindex:
        :members:
        :undoc-members:

.. autoclass:: call_demo.MyClass
    :noindex:
    :members:
    :undoc-members:


Skip large data representations
-------------------------------
You can exclude large data representations via the :confval:`not_document_data`
and :confval:`document_data` configuration values.

Suppose you have a dictionary with a very large representation, e.g. in the
file `no_data_demo.py`

.. literalinclude:: no_data_demo.py

which you convert to

.. autodata:: keep_data_demo.d
    :noindex:

You can skip this if you specify ``not_document_data = ['no_data_demo.d']`` in
your *conf.py*. Then you get

.. autodata:: no_data_demo.d
    :noindex:

.. _summary-table-example:

Generating a summary table without the full documentation
---------------------------------------------------------
Using one of the ``autosummary-...`` options (e.g. ``autosummary-members``,
see :ref:`autodoc-flags`) let's you create a summary table that points to the
documentation in another point of the documentation. You should, however make
sure to add the ``noindex`` flag and to add a ``no-members`` flag. For our
:mod:`autodocsumm` module this for example then looks like::

    .. automodule:: autodocsumm
        :noindex:
        :no-members:
        :autosummary:
        :autosummary-members:

which gives us

.. automodule:: autodocsumm
    :noindex:
    :no-members:
    :autosummary:
    :autosummary-members:

.. _no-nesting-example:

Generating a summary table for the module without nesting
---------------------------------------------------------

Using the ``autosummary-no-nesting`` option, you can generate the autosummary
table for a module without generating autosummary tables for members within
that module. This is useful when you only want to use the autosummary table as
a table of contents for a given page. For the :doc:`demo module <demo_module>`,
here's an example::

    .. automodule:: dummy
        :autosummary:
        :members:
        :autosummary-no-nesting:

which gives us

.. automodule:: dummy
    :noindex:
    :members:
    :autosummary:
    :autosummary-no-nesting:


.. _select-sections-example:

Select the sections to document
-------------------------------
You can select, which sections to document. If you only want the *Methods*
section of a class, you can specify::

    .. autoclass:: dummy.MyClass
        :members:
        :autosummary:
        :autosummary-sections: Methods

Multiple sections might be separated by `;;`, e.g.
``:autosummary-sections: Methods ;; Attributes``.

This also works for the ``autoclasssumm`` and ``automodulesumm`` directives,
e.g.::

    .. autoclasssumm:: dummy.SomeClass
        :autosummary-sections: Methods

.. autoclasssumm:: dummy.MyClass
    :autosummary-sections: Methods


.. _autosummary-position-example:

Positioning of the autosummary table
------------------------------------
By default, the autosummary tables are put at the end of the docstring sections
for classes and methods, i.e. something like::

    class-name
    class-docstring
    autosummary-tables
    class-members

You can customize this positioning by calling the ``.. autoclasssumm::``
directive inside the class docstring, e.g.

.. literalinclude:: inline_autoclasssumm.py

Documenting this, with ``.. autoclass:: MyClass`` creates

.. autoclass:: inline_autoclasssumm.MyClass
    :noindex:
    :members:

Note that this omits the `Attributes` section as we specified the
``:autosummary-sections:`` options here. If you want to list this section
anyway at the end of the docstring, you can use the ``autosummary-force-inline``
option, e.g.::

    .. autoclass:: inline_autoclasssumm.MyClass
        :members:
        :autosummary-force-inline:
        :autosummary-sections: Attributes

.. autoclass:: inline_autoclasssumm.MyClass
    :members:
    :noindex:
    :autosummary-force-inline:
    :autosummary-sections: Attributes

Commit message:

GH-43: Add support for autosummary-nosignatures option.

docs/examples.rst, after:

.. _examples:

Examples
========

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    Demo Module <demo_module>
    Demo Class <demo_class>
    Demo Grouper <demo_grouper>

Including a table of contents
-----------------------------
Consider for example the following module in ``dummy.py``:

.. literalinclude:: dummy.py

The *autosummary* flag introduces a small table of contents. So::

    .. automodule:: dummy
        :members:
        :autosummary:

produces :ref:`this <demo_module>`. And::

    .. autoclass:: dummy.SomeClass
        :members:
        :autosummary:

produces :ref:`this <demo_class>`.

By default, module members are (mainly) grouped according into *Functions*,
*Classes* and *Data*, class members are grouped into *Methods* and
*Attributes*. But you can also provide alternative section names by connecting
to the :event:`autodocsumm-grouper` event. For example, if you include::

    def example_grouper(app, what, name, obj, section, options, parent):
        import dummy
        if parent is dummy.MyClass and name == 'some_other_attr':
            return 'Alternative Section'


    def setup(app):
        app.connect('autodocsumm-grouper', example_grouper)

in your *conf.py*, you get :ref:`this <demo_grouper>`.

Note that you can also include the *autosummary* flag in the
:confval:`autodoc_default_options` configuration value


Including the ``__call__`` method
---------------------------------
Suppose you have a descriptor with a ``__call__`` method (i.e. somewhat like
a method with additional features).

.. literalinclude:: call_demo.py

Then, if you set ``autodata_content = 'both'`` in your *conf.py* you get via::

    .. autoclass:: call_demo.MyClass
        :noindex:
        :members:
        :undoc-members:

.. autoclass:: call_demo.MyClass
    :noindex:
    :members:
    :undoc-members:


Skip large data representations
-------------------------------
You can exclude large data representations via the :confval:`not_document_data`
and :confval:`document_data` configuration values.

Suppose you have a dictionary with a very large representation, e.g. in the
file `no_data_demo.py`

.. literalinclude:: no_data_demo.py

which you convert to

.. autodata:: keep_data_demo.d
    :noindex:

You can skip this if you specify ``not_document_data = ['no_data_demo.d']`` in
your *conf.py*. Then you get

.. autodata:: no_data_demo.d
    :noindex:

.. _summary-table-example:

Generating a summary table without the full documentation
---------------------------------------------------------
Using one of the ``autosummary-...`` options (e.g. ``autosummary-members``,
see :ref:`autodoc-flags`) let's you create a summary table that points to the
documentation in another point of the documentation. You should, however make
sure to add the ``noindex`` flag and to add a ``no-members`` flag. For our
:mod:`autodocsumm` module this for example then looks like::

    .. automodule:: autodocsumm
        :noindex:
        :no-members:
        :autosummary:
        :autosummary-members:

which gives us

.. automodule:: autodocsumm
    :noindex:
    :no-members:
    :autosummary:
    :autosummary-members:

.. _no-nesting-example:

Generating a summary table for the module without nesting
---------------------------------------------------------

Using the ``autosummary-no-nesting`` option, you can generate the autosummary
table for a module without generating autosummary tables for members within
that module. This is useful when you only want to use the autosummary table as
a table of contents for a given page. For the :doc:`demo module <demo_module>`,
here's an example::

    .. automodule:: dummy
        :autosummary:
        :members:
        :autosummary-no-nesting:

which gives us

.. automodule:: dummy
    :noindex:
    :members:
    :autosummary:
    :autosummary-no-nesting:


.. _nosignatures-example:

Generating a summary table without signatures
---------------------------------------------

Using the ``autosummary-nosignatures`` option, you can generate the
autosummary table for a module that will not include function signatures.
This is useful for giving a high-level overview of the function name and
description. For the :doc:`demo module <demo_module>`, here's an example::

    .. automodule:: dummy
        :members:
        :autosummary:
        :autosummary-nosignatures:

which gives us

.. automodule:: dummy
    :members:
    :autosummary:
    :autosummary-nosignatures:


.. _select-sections-example:

Select the sections to document
-------------------------------
You can select, which sections to document. If you only want the *Methods*
section of a class, you can specify::

    .. autoclass:: dummy.MyClass
        :members:
        :autosummary:
        :autosummary-sections: Methods

Multiple sections might be separated by `;;`, e.g.
``:autosummary-sections: Methods ;; Attributes``.

This also works for the ``autoclasssumm`` and ``automodulesumm`` directives,
e.g.::

    .. autoclasssumm:: dummy.SomeClass
        :autosummary-sections: Methods

.. autoclasssumm:: dummy.MyClass
    :autosummary-sections: Methods


.. _autosummary-position-example:

Positioning of the autosummary table
------------------------------------
By default, the autosummary tables are put at the end of the docstring sections
for classes and methods, i.e. something like::

    class-name
    class-docstring
    autosummary-tables
    class-members

You can customize this positioning by calling the ``.. autoclasssumm::``
directive inside the class docstring, e.g.

.. literalinclude:: inline_autoclasssumm.py

Documenting this, with ``.. autoclass:: MyClass`` creates

.. autoclass:: inline_autoclasssumm.MyClass
    :noindex:
    :members:

Note that this omits the `Attributes` section as we specified the
``:autosummary-sections:`` options here. If you want to list this section
anyway at the end of the docstring, you can use the ``autosummary-force-inline``
option, e.g.::

    .. autoclass:: inline_autoclasssumm.MyClass
        :members:
        :autosummary-force-inline:
        :autosummary-sections: Attributes

.. autoclass:: inline_autoclasssumm.MyClass
    :members:
    :noindex:
    :autosummary-force-inline:
    :autosummary-sections: Attributes
