docs/index.rst, before:

.. autodocsumm documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul 20 18:01:33 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

==============================================
Extending your autodoc API docs with a summary
==============================================

.. start-badges

.. only:: html and not epub

    .. list-table::
        :stub-columns: 1
        :widths: 10 90

        * - docs
          - |docs|
        * - tests
          - |github-action| |requires| |codecov|
        * - package
          - |version| |supported-versions| |supported-implementations|

    .. |docs| image:: http://readthedocs.org/projects/autodocsumm/badge/?version=latest
        :alt: Documentation Status
        :target: http://autodocsumm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest

    .. |github-action| image:: https://github.com/Chilipp/autodocsumm/workflows/Tests/badge.svg
        :alt: Tests
        :target: https://github.com/Chilipp/autodocsumm/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Tests%22

    .. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/Chilipp/autodocsumm/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=I9wlZyhI4Y
        :alt: Codecov
        :target: https://codecov.io/gh/Chilipp/autodocsumm

    .. |requires| image:: https://requires.io/github/Chilipp/autodocsumm/requirements.svg?branch=master
        :alt: Requirements Status
        :target: https://requires.io/github/Chilipp/autodocsumm/requirements/?branch=master

    .. |version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/autodocsumm.svg?style=flat
        :alt: PyPI Package latest release
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/autodocsumm

    .. |supported-versions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/autodocsumm.svg?style=flat
        :alt: Supported versions
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/autodocsumm

    .. |supported-implementations| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/implementation/autodocsumm.svg?style=flat
        :alt: Supported implementations
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/autodocsumm

.. end-badges

Welcome! This sphinx extension provides some useful extensions to the Sphinxs
autodoc_ extension. Those are

1. It creates a *Table of Contents* in the style of the autosummary_ extension
   with methods, classes, functions and attributes
2. As you can include the ``__init__`` method documentation for via the
   :confval:`autoclass_content <sphinx:autoclass_content>` configuration value,
   we provide the :confval:`autodata_content` configuration value to include
   the documentation from the ``__call__`` method
3. You can exclude the string representation of specific objects. E.g. if you
   have a large dictionary using the :confval:`not_document_data` configuration
   value.

See the :ref:`examples` section for more details.

.. _autodoc: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/ext/autodoc.html
.. _autosummary: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/ext/autosummary.html


Content
-------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    conf_settings
    examples
    api/autodocsumm.rst


Installation
============
Simply install it via ``pip``::

    $ pip install autodocsumm

Or you install it via::

    $ python setup.py install

from the `source on GitHub`_.


.. _source on GitHub: https://github.com/Chilipp/autodocsumm


Requirements
============
The package only requires Sphinx_ to be installed. It has been tested for
versions higher than 1.3.


.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable


Quickstart
==========

In order to activate the autodocsumm extension, you have to list it in your
``conf.py``:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: conf.py

    extensions = [
        'sphinx.ext.autodoc',
        ...,
        'autodocsumm',
    ]

Once this is done, you can use the ``:autosummary:`` option for autodoc
directives to generate a table at the top, e.g.:

.. code-block:: rst

    .. automodule:: my.awesome.module
        :autosummary:

Optionally, you can make autodocsumm active by default for all autodoc
directives by adding:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: conf.py

    autodoc_default_options = {
        'autosummary': True,
    }


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

change license to Apache-2.0 and update copyright

docs/index.rst, after:

.. autodocsumm documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul 20 18:01:33 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

==============================================
Extending your autodoc API docs with a summary
==============================================

.. start-badges

.. only:: html and not epub

    .. list-table::
        :stub-columns: 1
        :widths: 10 90

        * - docs
          - |docs|
        * - tests
          - |github-action| |requires| |codecov|
        * - package
          - |version| |supported-versions| |supported-implementations|

    .. |docs| image:: http://readthedocs.org/projects/autodocsumm/badge/?version=latest
        :alt: Documentation Status
        :target: http://autodocsumm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest

    .. |github-action| image:: https://github.com/Chilipp/autodocsumm/workflows/Tests/badge.svg
        :alt: Tests
        :target: https://github.com/Chilipp/autodocsumm/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Tests%22

    .. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/Chilipp/autodocsumm/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=I9wlZyhI4Y
        :alt: Codecov
        :target: https://codecov.io/gh/Chilipp/autodocsumm

    .. |requires| image:: https://requires.io/github/Chilipp/autodocsumm/requirements.svg?branch=master
        :alt: Requirements Status
        :target: https://requires.io/github/Chilipp/autodocsumm/requirements/?branch=master

    .. |version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/autodocsumm.svg?style=flat
        :alt: PyPI Package latest release
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/autodocsumm

    .. |supported-versions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/autodocsumm.svg?style=flat
        :alt: Supported versions
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/autodocsumm

    .. |supported-implementations| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/implementation/autodocsumm.svg?style=flat
        :alt: Supported implementations
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/autodocsumm

.. end-badges

Welcome! This sphinx extension provides some useful extensions to the Sphinxs
autodoc_ extension. Those are

1. It creates a *Table of Contents* in the style of the autosummary_ extension
   with methods, classes, functions and attributes
2. As you can include the ``__init__`` method documentation for via the
   :confval:`autoclass_content <sphinx:autoclass_content>` configuration value,
   we provide the :confval:`autodata_content` configuration value to include
   the documentation from the ``__call__`` method
3. You can exclude the string representation of specific objects. E.g. if you
   have a large dictionary using the :confval:`not_document_data` configuration
   value.

See the :ref:`examples` section for more details.

.. _autodoc: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/ext/autodoc.html
.. _autosummary: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/ext/autosummary.html


Content
-------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    conf_settings
    examples
    api/autodocsumm.rst


Installation
============
Simply install it via ``pip``::

    $ pip install autodocsumm

Or you install it via::

    $ python setup.py install

from the `source on GitHub`_.


.. _source on GitHub: https://github.com/Chilipp/autodocsumm


Requirements
============
The package only requires Sphinx_ to be installed. It has been tested for
versions higher than 1.3.


.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable


Quickstart
==========

In order to activate the autodocsumm extension, you have to list it in your
``conf.py``:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: conf.py

    extensions = [
        'sphinx.ext.autodoc',
        ...,
        'autodocsumm',
    ]

Once this is done, you can use the ``:autosummary:`` option for autodoc
directives to generate a table at the top, e.g.:

.. code-block:: rst

    .. automodule:: my.awesome.module
        :autosummary:

Optionally, you can make autodocsumm active by default for all autodoc
directives by adding:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: conf.py

    autodoc_default_options = {
        'autosummary': True,
    }


Disclaimer
==========
Copyright 2016-2019, Philipp S. Sommer
Copyright 2020-2021, Helmholtz-Zentrum Hereon

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
